The following policy inheritance and override rules apply for TrafficPolicies: 
* Policies that are defined in a TrafficPolicy resource and applied to a parent HTTPRoute resource are automatically inherited by all child and grandchild HTTPRoutes along the route delegation chain. 
* If the TrafficPolicy applies to a child or grandchild HTTPRoute and defines a top-level policy that is different from the policy that is defined on the parent, the policies are merged and both the parent and child/grandchild policies are applied. For example, if the parent applies a rate limiting policy and the child applies a transformation policy, both policies are applied.
* If the TrafficPolicy applies to a child or grandchild HTTPRoute and defines the same top-level policy, the policy of the child takes precedence and the policy on the parent is ignored. Note that you can add the `kgateway.dev/inherited-policy-priority: ShallowMergePreferParent` annotation to the parent HTTPRoute to preserve the top-level parent policies on delegated routes.
* If you used [multiple attachment options](/docs/about/policies/trafficpolicy/#policy-priority-and-merging-rules) to apply a TrafficPolicy with the same top-level policy to a parent or child HTTPRoute, only the policy with the highest priority is applied. The priority is determined by the attachment option that you chose. The following options are sorted from highest to lowest. 
  * Policy defined in a TrafficPolicy and attached to an HTTPRoute via the HTTPRoute's `extensionRef` filter
  * Policy defined in a TrafficPolicy resource and attached to an HTTPRouteRule via the `targetRef.sectionName` option
  * Policy defined in a TrafficPolicy resource and attached to an HTTPRoute via the `targetRef` option